Yesterday, I was talking to Emily on the phone for the first time in a few weeks. Calling her on the phone always leaves me a little worse for wear because it dredges up things that I don’t really want to remember — old fights, childhood anxieties, parts of her personality that I just can’t stand sometimes, her critiques of me that sting more because she has known me literally since I was born — and yesterday was no exception. Emily was asking me when I was planning to come home for the holidays to visit our parents. She has always been way more anal about planning and details than I am, and because of this, calls where we have to plan anything (a trip, a joint gift for our parents, medical care, etc etc)  always amplify the negativity between us. The more we talked, the more accusatory she became about the fact that I haven’t been home in awhile. It just made me feel bad, especially because I know that she is right — I really should be making more of an effort to stay connected to our parents. My gut told me that I should end the call early, even though we hadn’t finished planning my trip. I felt that the longer we stayed on the call, the more likely one of us was to say something that we would really regret. I just told Emily that I could not handle talking to her that afternoon, and that the call was making me feel upset and overwhelmed, and then I hung up. 

After I hung up, I did feel pretty bad about it because I had ended it rather abruptly and I felt like I hadn’t communicated my feelings very effectively, nor had I really given her the chance to explain herself. I could tell that Emily was upset at me because she sent me a really long text afterward continuing to berate me for being irresponsible and selfish. I haven’t responded to it yet because even just looking at the message makes me really upset. I want to apologize to her but I feel my pride getting in the way because I don’t want to concede to critiques that I find unfairly mean-spirited. I don’t know, though, I think I really need to do something different when it comes to my relationship with her. Maybe we need a longer period of not talking? But it’s kind of hard to avoid with mom’s illness; we have no choice but to cooperate with each other, it’s just hard to navigate without building so much resentment. I guess we’ll see how things go for mom’s birthday next month.
