Today was calm, since I really want to recover from my cold (I’m more congested today than yesterday, so I took some medication and now at least I’m not coughing as much). I called Kaila while I was cooking soup for dinner and it was so good to catch up with her. She’s been stressed out about applying for grad school, but I just know that her art is so fabulous that she’ll get in everywhere she wants to go. She listened to me vent about my roommates (while I whispered in the kitchen so that they couldn’t hear me). I’m just really grateful for her consistent presence in my life. I told her my true thoughts on Oliver and I assured her that I will support her no matter what, but as a friend, I also have the responsibility to be honest. She listened to me wholeheartedly and told me she understands a lot of my concerns. Apparently Oliver is always asking about Kaila’s ex Charlie, prying about their past relationship and whether or not Kaila still texts them. No matter how often Kaila tells him that they don’t talk, Oliver still acts so suspicious. He even tries to go through her phone sometimes to track what she’s doing?! I told her that this sounds so unhealthy to me, and I don’t want her to have to live in a surveillance state around this man. But at the same time, I’m thinking of something my friend Martin once told me, which was that maturing means that your friends will date people who you hate, and you just have to be okay with it. I guess he’s right… I’ve definitely dated people who my friends have disapproved of, and it isn’t fun, but at the end of the day, I feel like we just have to give other people the space to make their own mistakes and grow. And in any case, getting extremely needlessly angry when your friends are doing things you don’t agree with or find strange is no good, really. I remember when Jesse broke off their friendship with me because they didn’t agree with me dating Mei… but Jesse couldn’t articulate any real critique of Mei, other than that they thought Mei was “changing” me for the worse. At this stage of life, I feel like it’s so important to let people change—or at least I feel extremely attached to my own fluidity.

In other news, the electrician didn’t show up today, so I’ll have to call them again.