It’s almost midnight now; the dinner party was super stressful but it was a success. I don’t think I realized how much pressure I was putting on myself for this to go perfectly. I guess that it’s because of a lot of things. For one, I think I’ve been displacing a lot of my guilt about being so far away from home onto making Mom’s birthday perfect. I haven’t been able to provide as much direct care to her as I would have wanted to throughout the past year. Haven’t been able to drive her to her doctor’s appointments or cook food for her or distract her from the more painful parts of her treatment. So maybe I’ve been waiting for a day like her birthday to make up for it, to show her that I really care about her, that I’m not a negligent daughter, and that I am always thinking about her — essentially just trying my best to make her feel loved, in case she ever doubted it. Another thing, I think, that contributed to how much pressure I felt about this party was that so few of our family friends have really seen her since she got sick last year. I could tell that Mom herself was really anxious about this. Obviously she was overjoyed to see so many people, but I think she was also really self-conscious about being weaker than they’ve ever seen her before. She’s always been someone that other people rely on, almost to a fault, and I think she’s not used to being dependent on other people. And she had always prided herself on her almost superhuman levels of energy, how she can pull an all nighter making lesson plans and then show up bright and early in the morning to her first grade elementary classroom, with twenty rowdy kids demanding her attention, and then organize a surprise party for her friends, and then come home and talk to me and Em about our days. I guess my point is, this illness has been such a huge shift in Mom’s self-conception, and all of our relationships with her, and it feels like this dinner party was one of the first times that it’s all come to a head a bit — with all her old friends there, and me and Em both home at the same time for the first time in what feels like forever. I don’t really know what to make of it, but I was really overcome with emotion all evening.