I have a lot of mixed emotions today. I was at my judo tournament and the first two fights went well and were so evenly matched that they lasted for all four minutes and came to a draw. But during the third fight, my opponent was a lot smaller than me and I’m not used to fighting someone smaller than me (since everyone on my team is my size or bigger) — so I ended up using too much force and she injured her ankle when I was wrestling with her on the ground. The girl, Giulia, was really upset and rightfully so. She was crying and yelling at me, and then her coach came over and started yelling at me too, and it was all just so chaotic and I felt extremely guilty and I still do.

I know these kinds of injuries happen all the time in judo, since it is such an intense and high-contact sport, but the whole experience made me think back to other times when I’ve hurt people (less so with physical injury like this, and more so emotionally). Like Jesse for instance, I thought immediately back to when we were still friends and we would argue all the time about really petty things, but the arguments would escalate to a point that neither of us could back down from, and I know that I said some hurtful things that I can’t take back now. The truth is, I don’t miss being friends with Jesse, even though we were so close for so long. Now that it has been almost a year of not talking to them, I realize that we were too close, if that makes sense. There was no room between us and it was so claustrophobic and messy; I cared so much about their judgment of me that sometimes it was genuinely hard to separate my sense of self from what they thought of me. At the end of the day, we were jealous of each other, and the things we each had that the other did not. This made it too easy for us to hurt each other because we didn’t even really have to try to do so. The same was true for Giovanni. We became close at a really emotional time for both of us and it was so intense so quickly. We were such different people with such completely different attitudes toward life who, under any other circumstances, probably would not have even met, let alone connected as we did. When our relationship intensified, I really did not know what to do, it was so overwhelming and I did not handle it particularly well. We ended up hurting each other a lot too—and again, it wasn’t deliberate and it wasn’t out of malice, it was (not to overextend this judo metaphor) just a matter of being too close to someone else and misjudging my weight against theirs. 

Thinking about what my coach once said about how the elements of a successful throw are space (having enough space to execute the throw and then making sure your opponent’s body is completely tight against yours when you are throwing them) and timing (picking the moment when your opponent’s center of gravity is off-kilter and moving quickly). I genuinely think this is true of relationships, too; they always seem to boil down to these extremely minute calculations of moving closer and farther apart, being in sync or out of sync. And I guess I’m just deeply afraid of hurting others even though I know it’s a totally natural part of being a human and loving other people fully, just like it is a risk that you always take when you step out onto the mat in competition. But philosophizing about that in my head does not make the reality of hurt any better, really, and I don’t want a “cognitive restructuring” about any of this to make me feel better. I just want to sit with the hard fact of hurting another person, the inevitability of that, and the fact that it cannot be explained away or mitigated.