Today, I was cleaning out my closet in my childhood bedroom and found something that really made me reflect on the past: an old cassette tape that Dani gave me when we had just started dating. I popped it into my cassette player, which I haven’t used too much since Dani and I broke up. It’s been almost five years now. Dani loved old ways of listening to music. She hated streaming because she didn’t believe in music with no materiality to it; I remember how I used to tease her for the pretentious old record stores she liked to go to, but then she would talk so earnestly about the scratchiness of records, how wonderful it was to hear music as not some disembodied abstracted thing but as the inscription of a person, a life, onto the grooves of a record — and all I could think of then was the sound of her voice, how unusual it was, how impossible it was to describe, neither quiet nor loud, low nor high… she had the kind of voice that sort of slots into the gaps of things, if that makes any sense. She cared a lot about acoustics, of course, so we’d sit in the walk-through closet of my tiny dorm room and shut the door, and there we were, sitting in the pitch dark together huddled around her old record player, and we would listen to old music, paying particular attention to the scratches. Every time we hit a scratch, she would remark that someone must have loved that part of the song so much, that in honor of that person, the song could never be played properly again.  

Today, I laughed a little at myself, in my closet alone, listening to Dani’s songs again. I wonder how she’s doing. The old songs brought me back to myself in my first year of college, before things in my life had gotten much more complicated. I was so much younger then, so much less mature, but I do kind of miss how stupid I used to be, which I know sounds strange, but I have so much more caution and restraint in the way I approach things nowadays, that I almost miss how easy it was to make silly mistakes back then and fall in love and get hurt and not have to worry too much about everything because you’re young. 

I’ve been in the slow process of moving out of home for good; that’s why I’m cleaning out the closet today. Every time I leave home, my old room is a little emptier, and soon it will be totally empty. I don’t know what to think of that. 
