I handed in my notice at work so I have two more weeks left at this job. I feel so relieved, but the relief is balanced out by fear about not knowing at all what shape my life will take on after this. I was telling Kaila a few days ago that I’m so worried about failure—about waking up one day and just realizing that my life has been a failure—and she asked me what it would look like for my life to have failed. I thought for a while and then told her that I would feel my life to be a failure if I had constructed it around safety in order to avoid loss. Yes, I’m scared of other people’s judgment and I’m scared of hurting or losing the people I love, but I trust myself more in those respects. For instance, I trust that I will serve and keep the people who I love because I have evidence of myself doing that. It’s a strong feeling—and I haven’t always been the most consistent, and I will always fall short—but I trust that it won’t dissipate. Same with the fear of judgment—I know I can get over that because I have before, and I will again. But I’m an intensely pragmatic person and I know that I can resort to safety, not because I affirmatively want safety but because I’m afraid of the alternative, which would mean betting on myself and possibly failing. I don’t honestly know if I have done that before, and the prospect of it is so daunting to me. But quitting my job felt like the first step toward living more honestly and with greater intention. So I guess that’s good.

Other than that, my day was pretty normal. I ate the same breakfast as always, I treated myself to a pastry at the bakery next to the office, and I went on a long run through the park after work. I called Mom to see how she’s doing and she seems in okay spirits. She’s been reading a lot of science fiction these days. I texted Em because I heard something on the radio that reminded me of a piece she played many years ago and I wanted to check what it was. The hot water isn’t working in our apartment (again!), and at this point it’s just kind of comical, so I took a cold shower for a few minutes and that really made me so alert. I’ll call the electrician again tomorrow.